# college-compare


Big Idea/Goal/Why did we do this?
	The purpose of this website is to provide an efficient method to compare Colleges and Universities. We would like to simplify the process of scanning through a variety of websites in order to find the information. The website is essentially a comprehensive tool for comparing that can be used for anyone applying to colleges, easily comparing stats, costs, and other associated data. With it, we hope to provide the user with the information needed prior to making an important decision regarding schools.
Implementation information
Our code can be broken down into three main segments. The first segment captured the data which we needed. The second segment transferred the data to the recipient, however it did not display the final output. Finally, the third segment allowed the user to view the final output on our college compare website. A simple analogy to describe how the code works can be described as when one writes a letter. Let us say an individual, person A,  chooses to write a letter containing the missing ingredient another individual, person B, needs to complete a recipe. When person A writes this letter, he is capturing the data which person B needs. The problem is person B can not view the contents of this letter. To solve this, person A decided to mail the letter containing the secret ingredient to person B. This process of mailing the letter can be compared to our Flask script outputting the data to our html template. Finally, when the letter reaches person B’s address, person B now has the ability to view the final output of the letter and complete his recipe. In our code, this occurs when segment 3 is completed. The flask code has been successfully outputted to the HTMl template and the user can now see the comparison results. The code for each respective segment can be found here 
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xOvzNPRTZ_7dlkVbSs68e7x1jHnzw-ZLqvjQ312bHqY/edit?usp=sharing
Results
With our software, the user is allowed to navigate through a total of four web pages in which they can view different things. In the “HOME” page, the user is able to see the initials of our website name in the top left corner “CC”, an Image of students in a graduation to fit the theme, and a “Begin Comparing!” button. The user is also able to navigate to the comparison page by pressing “COMPARE” in the top right corner of the screen. Apart from these two pages, the website also provides an “ABOUT US” and “OUR GOAL” sections in which we provide a small description of our group and the purpose behind the assignment, respectively. Within the main page being “COMPARE”, the website absorbs the users input in two text boxes and with the click of a “COMPARE” button, outputs a table that provides the user with several different factors about the Colleges/Universities they asked for. The table efficiently provides a button to compare again in which the user will be taken to the “COMPARE” page to continue with different school entries. 
Project evolution/narrative
Over the last few weeks our project has changed immensely. Our code for the html website itself stayed relatively consistent as our group was confident in the initial design and implementation for it. However, at the start of the project we did consider simply having one page for our website. This singular page would have depicted the comparisons table only. Instead, we thought it would be better if we had a complete website with its own home page and some other pages to accompany the comparison table.  Additionally, the same can be said for the web scraping code as this was the first step for our project. Luckily, the group members who worked on this portion of the project did a phenomenal job and made sure that everything worked flawlessly so that there would not be a need to go back and modify the original code. However, what did change was the code design of the app.py file. Our group had the most difficulty figuring out how to get flask to run between our python and html files. We tried several different methods but luckily we were able to get the desired output. Unfortunately, we do not have any screenshots from the first iterations of the app.py code. 
Attribution
We based our code around three sources for the completion of the website, those being: (1) tuitiontracker.org, (2) openweathermap.org, and (3) pexels.com. With that being said, website (1) provided us with nearly all the information we needed to construct the code, apart from the current weather at each school. At this point, website (2) came into play and we used it in order to dictate the current temperature at each of the Colleges/Universities by locating the schools using their latitude and longitude. The websites previously stated were used in the Python portion of the assignment, while website (3) was used for the HTML part. Website (3) was crucial to us because it provides free stock photography for its users, allowing us to use a graduation image for our “HOME” page of the website making it more aesthetically pleasing.
